---
layout: article
published: true
category: blog
title: Excel and VBA portfolio
---



#Excel and VBA related work

##bUTL add-in
bUTL is an add-in for Excel that is an accumulation of all the utility and helper code that I have written over the years.  It is heavily geared toward speeding up common utility tasks and is also heavily featured when it comes to working with `Charts`.
bUTL recently was (or will be) published on GitHub to open source the code, provide references for others, and motivate myself to clean up the code.  Even putting a VBA project onto GitHub is an interesting task in itself.

##"Lab Apps" add-in
The Lab Apps add-in was a purpose built add-in for Excel that provided data collection, analysis, and visualization for managing quality critical data in a chemical manufacturing plant.  It was built to pull data from a Star LIMS system.  All of the analysis and visualization was done with native Excel elements.  Specific features included:
 - Built necessary SQL statements dynamically to pull in sample, batch, or specification details.
 - Provided an automated approach to analyzing Cp/Cpk metrics.
 - Provided built in SPC charting (using Star LIMS defined limits) to analyze unit performance and quality adherence.
 
##135+ answers to Stack Overlfow questions
I am fairly active on Stack Overflow answering (nearly exclusively) Excel VBA and formula related questions.  There are a number of one-off solutions involving formulas or VBA.  There are also a couple of general utility related code that made it into bUTL after I wrote the SO answer answer.
